Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on matrix arithmetic in this lecture we're going to be discussing
just basic arithmetic and some basic operations on a matrix.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio.
See how this all works.
All right so here we are our studio when I'm going to go ahead and do is create a matrix.
Just go ahead and call it Matt.
Keep it simple.
I'll use the matrix function or go him Pessin a vector using that colon rotation because it's just a
sequential series of numbers.
Let's go ahead and say by RHO is equal to true the capital-T is fine.
Now I will specify the number of rows using end row argument parameter as 5.
So this should result in a five by five matrix of the numbers 1 through 25.
Now just walk through just some simple arithmetic operations just like a vector.
If you do arithmetic operations with a scalar so a single number everything is going to be done on an
element by element basis.
So if I wanted to multiply all the numbers in my matrix by two I would just do Matt Asterix too.
So I wanted to divide everything by two would just be a single slash divided by two.
So I want to do everything in the power of two.
I would just say that little carrot symbol.
That's the power of two.
I can even do reciprocals in the same manner so I can say 1 divided by Matt which is going to be the
same as the basic reciprocal of every single element in that matrix.
OK.
So hopefully this looks pretty familiar given what we learn about vectors.
We can also use comparison operators of matrices just like we could with vectors and remember with vectors
we got in return an entire vector of logicals.
In this case we'll get in return an entire matrix of logicals.
So if I wanted to grab let's say everywhere where the matrix was greater than 15 I could do this and
then I would get in return a matrix full of logical values and just like with the vectors I can use
the same sort of notation actually filtered out by those values.
So that's going to return a vector of where of all the values were that was true.
OK.
So we can even use matrices in arithmetic operations with each other like an atom matrices together
.
So if I wanted to say map plus map that's going to be the same as MAP times to.
I can even do things like Map divided by map and that should all equal one which makes sense because
any number divided by itself is equal to 1.
So hopefully this all looks again pretty familiar.
You can even do powers so I can say map to the power of map that's going to be some really large numbers
here which makes sense but it all works out.
And I can do let's say Matt Times Matt to go ahead and say 1 times 1 2 times 2 3 times 3 etc..
Now a quick side note on Matrix multiplications.
If you're familiar with linear algebra you'll notice that this isn't actually true matrix multiplication
.
So if you're familiar with the mathematics behind this topic then you would actually like to use are
to perform true matrix multiplication.
You can check out the Wikipedia links provided in the notes.
For more background on matrix multiplication you can actually just use the following syntax so go ahead
and make an example of this instead of saying.
Matt times Matz.
Which group would perform element by element multiplication.
The action wanted to perform true matrix multiplication in the linear algebra concept of multiplication
.
You would use percentage signs surrounding that Asterix in order to confirm that you actually want to
do matrix multiplication.
So notice how those results are different.
Don't worry too much.
If you're not familiar with matrix multiplication in that linear algebra sense this is just for some
quick information for those people that do know how to use that.
OK so that's it for this lecture.
It should all be feeling familiar because of everything we've gone over through vector's centrally.
All the same operations the same indexing notation it's just in two dimensions.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.